---
title: "Drive to 2030, sustainable urban mobility"
date: 2010-09-01 14:10:42
permalink: /transportsdufutur/2010/09/drive-to-2030-sustainable-urban-mobility.html
tags: [chine, connectivité, Efficacité énergétique, internet, internet des objets, jeu vidéo, léger, mode doux, multimodes, partage de la voirie]
---

<p style="text-align: justify">GM aborde en Chine la nécessaire révolution de l'ADN automobile pour la rendre compatible avec les mobilités urbaines. La re-conception passera notamment par : électricité, connectivité, réseaux sociaux, infrastructure, urbanisme, design.</p> <p style="text-align: justify">In line with the World Expo’s theme of “Better City, Better Life”, GM is hosting a series of six forums highlighting the <a href="http://www.gmexpo2010.com/forum/en" target="_blank">challenges and solutions for sustainable mobility</a>. GM will be inviting leading experts from the private and public sectors, government and academia to attend these forums, which will be held in Shanghai, China at SAIC-GM Pavilion in conjunction with the World Expo 2010.</p> <p style="text-align: justify"> </p>  <!--more-->   <p style="text-align: justify">        </p> <div style="text-align: justify">From the “Internet” to the “Internet of Things,” the world is becoming increasingly connected in myriad ways.  With the promise of connecting automobiles to each other and to the transportation infrastructure, the Mobility Internet could revolutionize urban mobility and the automotive industry.  </div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">The Mobility Internet is GM’s vision for a future of connected cars.  It refers to the technologies that allow vehicles to collect, process and share enormous amounts of data by linking them to each other and to an urban network, much as the Internet links computers today.  The Mobility Internet will enable vehicle users to connect to their social networks, creating a new type of social interaction while on the road.</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">Building on the success of The Pathway to Sustainable Mobility Forum in May, today’s forum attracted leading experts from the global business and academic community. Panelists discussed the development of the Mobility Internet concept and its related connectivity technologies, and looked into how this concept will transform future urban mobility.</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">According to Kevin Wale, GM China President and Managing Director: “The Mobility Internet will fundamentally change the way people move in the cities of the future. By redefining the automobile DNA through connectivity technologies, it will help eliminate the growing problems of congestion, traffic accidents and finding parking.  At the same time, it will enable autonomous driving so that drivers can fully enjoy the wireless social network as they travel.”</div> <div style="text-align: justify"><strong> </strong></div> <div style="text-align: justify"><strong>Transforming Future Urban Transportation</strong></div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">At World Expo 2010 Shanghai, GM is showcasing its vision for urban mobility in 2030, a vision in which driving is free from emissions and petroleum, free from congestion and accidents, and more fun and fashionable than ever before. Mobility Internet technologies play an important role in making this vision a reality.</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">John Du, Director of GM's China Science Lab, said at the forum: “Telephones and computers have evolved from desktop fixtures tethered by landlines to pocket-size devices that can go anywhere, anytime, connecting us wirelessly to the world via the Internet. Now it’s the automobile’s turn. Like laptop computers and cell phones, the connected car will offer a variety of convenience features. Connected vehicles will be able to sense what is around them, and communicate with other vehicles and the road system. This will optimize traffic while shortening travel times and make travel more predictable. Many of the technologies that will enable connected vehicles like GM’s EN-V (Electric Networked-Vehicle) concept exist today. The next step toward entering the Mobility Internet era is moving from concept to commercialization.”</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify"><strong>OnStar Leads the Way </strong></div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">As one of the building blocks of connectivity technology, the OnStar in-vehicle communication service is a significant milestone in the development of the Mobility Internet.  It represents the best real-world application of Mobility Internet technologies.</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">Through the Global Positioning System (GPS) and wireless communication technologies, OnStar provides 14 services, including Automatic Crash Response, Emergency Services, Security Protection, Navigation System, Vehicle Diagnostics and Hands-Free Calling.</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">Chris Preuss, President of OnStar, announced at the forum: “More than 29,000 users have subscribed to OnStar service in China since its launch in December 2009. OnStar has surpassed all of its competitors and become the leading in-vehicle communication service provider in China, the world’s largest vehicle market.  We expect OnStar to have nearly 200,000 users in China by the end of this year.”  </div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">Preuss added: “General Motors has been working aggressively to ensure that while driving, users can also safely interact and obtain the information they need.  OnStar will lead this connected car revolution, improving the driving and travel experience on an ongoing basis, with the goal of realizing the Expo 2010 vision of a ‘Better City, Better Life.’”</div> <div style="text-align: justify"><strong> </strong></div> <div style="text-align: justify"><strong>Supporting Future Urban Development</strong></div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">Experts from different fields have high expectations for the Mobility Internet and related technologies.  Yang Xiaoguang, Director of the Department of Transportation Engineering and the ITS Research Center at Shanghai’s Tongji University, said: “The rapid progress made in the development of technologies such as digitization, networking, information and intelligence gathering has promoted the growth of urban transit systems and society.  The basic components for the next generation of transportation systems and intelligent public transit are already on the horizon.”</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">Discussing the next-generation transportation system, Guo Xingang, Principal Engineer and Senior Director of Embedded Platform and Applications Research at Intel Labs, said: “The Mobility Internet is gaining momentum. It will lead us to a safer, greener, more efficient, and more comfortable future. Vehicles will connect to the huge Internet world, sharing in its rich resources and services. In-vehicle sensors will feed information back to the Internet in a timely manner.  This will make the Mobility Internet an indispensible part of the ‘society on wheels’ in the 21<sup>st</sup> century and people’s digital lifestyles.”</div> <div style="text-align: justify"> </div> <div style="text-align: justify">The Drive to 2030" Sustainable Urban Mobility Forum series is designed to address urban mobility issues and provide comprehensive analysis and discussions of the prospect and feasibility of sustainable mobility from multiple perspectives, including the business role, policy incentives, urban planning, new energy, and technology innovation. Topics include: The Pathway to Sustainable Mobility Mobility Internet - Connecting the Virtual Superhighway Electrification - Plugging into the Future Design - Sketching the Road to Tomorrow Technology Solutions - Roadmap to Reinvention and Urban Mobility - Drive to the Future.</div>"2010-09-01 14:10:42https://gabrielplassat.github.io/transportsdufutur/2010/09/drive-to-2030-sustainable-urban-mobility.htmlchine|connectivité|Efficacité énergétique|internet|internet des objets|jeu vidéo|léger|mode doux|multimodes|partage de la voiriepublish7gabrielplassat3948gabriel.plassat@ademe.frGabrielPlassatdrive-to-2030-sustainable-urban-mobility2015-07-21 16:37:41and Urban Mobility - Drive to the Future.</div>"
