---
title: "The future of Vehicle Fuels and Technologies : Health Benefits and Challenges"
date: 2011-04-07 10:47:50
permalink: https://gabrielplassat.github.io/transportsdufutur/2011/04/the-future-of-vehicle-fuels-and-technologies-health-benefits-and-challenges.html
tags: [données réelles, Europe, externalité, qualité de l'air]
---

<p style="text-align: justify">Health Effects Institute (HEI) released a report—“<a href="http://pubs.healtheffects.org/view.php?id=356" target="_blank"><strong>The  Future of Vehicle Fuels and Technologies: Anticipating Health Benefits  and Challenges</strong></a>”—that identifies a number of potential unintended health  consequences that could arise from new vehicle fuels and technologies  and need investigation. Based on the findings of the report, HEI’s  Research Committee has formulated an action plan to address the  identified health issues.</p> <p style="text-align: justify">The new SCET report reviews a host of new technologies and fuels, from  improved internal combustion engines, to hybrid and other electric drive  technologies, to existing and new bio- and other types of fuels. The  report contains a number of detailed findings, chief among them: </p>  <!--more-->   <ul style="text-align: justify"> <li> Internal combustion gasoline and diesel engines, improved for  efficiency and emissions, are likely to continue to play a major role  for at least the next 10 years in the transportation sector. At the same  time SCET finds that <ul> <li>New direct injection gasoline technology offers improvements in  fuel economy, but may increase emissions of ultrafine particles that  could cause health effects.</li> <li>Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology reduces emissions  of nitrogen oxides from fuel-efficient diesel engines, but may increase  emissions of some potentially harmful nitrogen compounds.</li> </ul> </li> <li> Large volumes of ethanol and potentially other biofuels are and will be  entering the market over the next decade in response to government  mandates. <ul> <li>SCET identifies increased emissions of aldehydes and other  compounds, with potential health effects, that could increase population  exposure. SCET also notes that there is controversy about the broader  environmental impacts from the use of such fuels.</li> </ul> </li> <li> There is increased development and use of a number of fuels from unconventional sources such as tar sands, oil shale, and coal. <ul> <li>Fuels from such sources may have different fuel formulations  and emissions characteristics; they also pose a number of broader  environmental questions.</li> </ul> </li> <li> SCET describes major developments in hybrid, all-electric drive, and  fuel cell technologies, likely to see substantial market penetration by  the end of this decade. These technologies promise zero or near zero  emissions at the vehicle, but SCET identified three areas for potential attention: </li> </ul> <ul style="text-align: justify"> <li>  <ul> <li>Potential increased in-vehicle exposure to low-level electro-magnetic fields (EMF).</li> <li>Potential increased exposure in the battery lifecycle—from  extraction to production to use/accidents to disposal—to lithium, other  metals, and battery chemical solutions.</li> <li>Displaced emissions of conventional pollutants at electric power  plants which, if not controlled, could increase population exposure.</li> </ul> </li> </ul> <p style="text-align: justify">In response to these findings, the HEI Research Committee has issued an  Action Plan for investigations underway or soon to begin. These include:</p> <ul style="text-align: justify"> <li> An expert panel launched to sift through emissions, exposure, and health  data on ultrafine particles and determine whether emissions from new  technologies may pose a hazard.</li> <li> HEI’s Advanced Collaborative Engine Study (or ACES) is applying  comprehensive emissions characterization of modern heavy duty diesel  engines equipped with the latest SCR technology to determine whether key  nitrogen compounds and exposure are increased.</li> <li> An expert workshop convened this fall of all current emissions tests of  ethanol, biodiesel, and other biofuels to determine changes in emissions  and population exposure.</li> <li> HEI’s scientists will also conduct searches and initial reviews of the science literature on: <ul> <li>EMF emissions and potential effects.</li> <li>Toxicity of lithium and other battery components.</li> </ul> </li> <li> The National Particle Component Toxicity Initiative (NPACT), HEI’s  comprehensive effort to understand the effects of power plant, traffic,  and other emissions, will be completed this year, offering answers on  the potential effects of displaced emissions.</li> </ul> <p style="text-align: justify"> </p> <div id="__ss_7545300" style="width: 477px"><strong style="margin: 12px 0 4px"><a href="http://www.slideshare.net/transportsdufutur/hei-report" title="Hei report">Hei report</a></strong>        <div style="padding: 5px 0 12px">View more <a href="http://www.slideshare.net/">documents</a> from <a href="http://www.slideshare.net/transportsdufutur">transportsdufutur</a>.</div> </div>
