---
title: "Un nouveau service de mobilité pour les zones peu denses, quand l'accès aux données décuple les possibilités"
date: 2010-11-15 08:39:45
permalink: /2010/11/un-nouveau-service-de-mobilite-pour-les-zones-peu-denses-quand-lacces-aux-donnees-decuple-les-possib.html
tags: [assistant de mobilité, collectivité, commuter, confiance, connectivité, internet, partage de données, Service de mobilité]
layout: post
---

<p style="text-align: justify">Un programme de recherche anglais vient d'être lancé pour développer un logiciel permettant de faire rencontrer l'offre et la demande dans les zones peu denses en cumulant tous les modes de transports: public, privé, collectif, individuel. Finalement, un siège libre est un siège libre ... Ce programme est inclus dans le très intéressant <strong><a href="http://www.dotrural.ac.uk/new-project-launched-match-making-technology-transport" target="_blank">dot.rural</a></strong>. </p>  <!--more-->   <div id="news_teaser" style="text-align: justify"> <p style="padding-left: 30px">Technology to improve transport for people in remote and rural areas is being devised by Aberdeen scientists. The software will allow individuals to post their travel requirements before being automatically 'paired up' with potential transport options for their journey. It will also bring together timetable and contact information on all of the transport providers within a given geographical area — from bus and rail services to taxi firms.</p> </div> <div id="news_content"> <p style="text-align: justify;padding-left: 30px">Experts from the University of Aberdeen are developing a prototype of the software, which they believe could provide economic and environmental benefits by encouraging shared journeys and higher vehicle occupancy. It would potentially be accessed by rural dwellers via a website, by telephone or in the form of a public information portal.</p> <p style="text-align: justify;padding-left: 30px">The 3 year project, involves transport experts, computing scientists and economists working together within <em>dot.rural</em> - the Research Councils UK (RCUK) research hub based at the University which is investigating how digital technologies could transform rural communities, society and business. </p> <p style="text-align: justify;padding-left: 30px">Professor John Nelson, Director of the University's Centre for Transport Research said: "For rural dwellers without access to a private car, transport choices can be limiting — for example only 57% of households in rural areas are within a 13 minute walk of an hourly or better bus service.</p> <p style="text-align: justify;padding-left: 30px">"The aim is to develop technology which would improve the relationship between transport supply and demand in rural and remote parts of the country. The software would enable a more integrated and co-ordinated approach to transport services within rural communities by pulling together information on all of the transport provisions within a given geographical area - from bus to private taxis. It would also provide the opportunity for suppliers of transport specific to education, social services, the elderly and disabled, or patient transport, to offer their services to the wider public at times of the day when their vehicles were not being utilised.</p> <p style="text-align: justifypadding-left: 30px">"Those seeking transport would post details of their intended trip — including the date, time and the estimated cost they would be willing to pay for their journey.  The software would then automatically 'match-make' the passenger with the various transport options available to them. These options could include information about suitable bus services available, or details of the potential for a shared taxi journey with another individual who has posted similar journey requirements."</p> <p style="text-align: justifypadding-left: 30px">Researchers plan to engage with a rural community who would input into the design of the software and test prototypes through the technology's various stages of development. Professor Nelson continued: "It is paramount that the software we create is easy for the general public to access and use, so engaging with those who would actually use the system will be an important part of the design process. We hope that by improving the relationship between passengers and transport providers, the software could encourage increased use of public and shared transport in rural areas to both the economic and environmental benefit of communities."</p> <p style="text-align: justify">Cette idée d'une place de marché des sièges libres, de rendre l'accès à tous les sièges libres aussi simples et rapides que possible est également détaillé <strong><a href="https://gabrielplassat.github.io/transportsdufutur/2010/07/quand-le-yield-management-setendra-a-tous-les-modes-de-transport.html" target="_blank">ici </a></strong>et <strong><a href="https://gabrielplassat.github.io/transportsdufutur/2010/03/metanote-tdf-2-le-marche-des-mobilites-20.html" target="_blank">là</a></strong>. Elle se concrétise dans ce projet. Mais quelle <strong><a href="https://gabrielplassat.github.io/transportsdufutur/2010/10/la-mobilite-20-est-accessible-quels-sont-les-risques-sera-t-elle-meilleure-pour-tous.html" target="_blank">gouvernance </a></strong>sera associée à cet outil ?</p> </div>"2010-11-15 08:39:45https://gabrielplassat.github.io/transportsdufutur/2010/11/un-nouveau-service-de-mobilite-pour-les-zones-peu-denses-quand-lacces-aux-donnees-decuple-les-possib.htmlassistant de mobilité|collectivité|commuter|confiance|connectivité|internet|partage de données|Service de mobilitépublish7gabrielplassat3948gabriel.plassat@ademe.frGabrielPlassatun-nouveau-service-de-mobilite-pour-les-zones-peu-denses-quand-lacces-aux-donnees-decuple-les-possib2015-07-21 16:37:34
